The procedure for restoration of the Cassandra cluster is equally important as the backup process. Below are the necessary steps to restore snapshot backup obtained from backup process. 

1. Create a Cassandra cluster with same number of nodes as the source cluster. 

2. Install Cassandra with the same version used on the source cluster and start Cassandra service on all nodes. 
   Ensure that all the nodes are **UP** and **NORMAL (UN)**. Following command can be used to check the status. 

   ```[Perform this step on any one node]```

   ```nodetool status ```

3. Stop Cassandra service. 

   ```[Perform this step on each node]```

4. For each node in the new cluster, add the tokens for one of the nodes in source cluster, to the 
   **'initial_token'** setting in the cassandra.yaml file. The token are included in token file and a reference 
   of token file is mentioned in manifest file. 

   ```[Perform this step on each node]```

   For example, if node IP 10.0.0.1 in the old cluster has tokens _"-9086506225974870113, -9047755627937773543, 
   -8996643323450313780"_, then on one of the nodes in the new cluster, will have setting:

   ```inital_token: -9086506225974870113, -9047755627937773543, -8996643323450313780```

   Set the initial_token for each remaining node in the new cluster.

5. Delete the data directory from each node. You might need to adjust it depending on your configuration. The 
   data directory is specified in the configuration file cassandra.yaml. If not set, it defaults to 
   _$CASSANDRA_HOME\data\data_

   ```[Perform this step on each node]```

   ```rm /path/to/cassandra/data/dir/*```

This ensures that each node will read the tokens assigned to it from the initial_tokens parameter.

6. Start Cassandra and check that they start up and join the cluster (e.g. check nodetool status). 

   ```[Perform this step on each node]```

7. For the desired backup to restore, execute the cql schema obtained from source cluster in backup process (step 1).
Note: Only execute the schema for non-system keyspaces and tables.

   ```[Perform this step on each node]```

   ```cqlsh -f file_containing_keyspace_schema e.g.schema.txt```

At this point:

  a. Each node in the cluster has been assigned the token range for a corresponding node in the old cluster.
  b. The keyspace schema from the old cluster has been recreated on the new cluster.


8. Copy the SSTables from backup on one node at a time referring the manifest file. The data should correspond 
   to the old node with same tokens. This can be identified from (step 4) where tokens of an old node have been 
   copied to the new nodes.

   ```[Perform this step on each node, for each table to restore]```

   ```Execute procedure to loop through a manifest file and copy SSTables to data directory for mentioned keyspace``` 

   _Note:_ The files being copied are SSTables files of form *.db, manifest.json etc...

9. Execute refresh on each node to make Cassandra load newly copied data.

   ```[Perform this step on each node, for each keyspace]```

   ```nodetool refresh keyspace_name ```

   Alternatively, restart Cassandra on each nodes to load the copied SSTables